Five Reasons to Blog
Nowadays, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube have practically monopolised self-expression and social networking. Publishing text, images and videos on the internet has now become
so easy and standardized, many people wonder if there is still a point to keeping your own blog.

Through this article, you will learn:
- Why a blog is still relevant
- How to make money from a blog
- The rewards of blogging

Why should you go to all this trouble of building a blog, creating content and driving traffic? Well, the following article covers five reasons why you should still 
start your own blog.
1. To Write
On your own blog, you can indulge your passion for writing, and do so regardless of guidelines and character limitations. Composing blog entries on a regular basis will
exercise and quickly hone your writing skills. This not only makes blog writing easier, but will also be of use to you in the world outside your website. People also often forget 
that writing a blog means building an extensive archive of articles which can later be re-used in a variety of ways.
2. To Network
With a blog, you can build your own community – a community that will read your articles, leave comments and in doing so, increase your standing in the online world. This often 
leads to befriending interesting and useful people, who can be helpful to you beyond the promotion of your blog. Lively exchange with your readers and other bloggers will not 
only serve as a source of motivation to you, but will also provide knowledge and new ideas.
3. For Knowledge
While starting a blog is no longer all that difficult, it will still involve dabbling in new things, such as HTML. A pleasant side effect is that you will acquire a lot of 
technical know-how. And it won’t stop there: blogging will give you an opportunity to become well versed in matters of self-organization, content creation, community 
management, marketing and the likes.

Moreover, immersing yourself in your blog topic will increase your level of expertise in the subject, which can be useful online as well as offline.
4. To Make Money
We all have bills to pay, even – or especially – bloggers! And nowadays, it’s not so unusual for bloggers to not only manage to cover their costs, but even make a good deal 
extra on the side through blogging. Some can even live exclusively off blogging.

While such people may be the exception to the rule, those bloggers with perseverance and knowledge of the marketing side of business have a better chance to succeed. From a 
business point of view, a blog can even be of indirect use to you. It can support your freelance career, or can be used to establish contact with companies which might then,
for example, offer you products for testing.
5. To have fun
For most bloggers, though, fun is the first and foremost reason to start a blog. Writing about a topic that is close to your heart is an absolute joy, not to mention the
exchange with readers and receiving feedback. Cooperation with other bloggers, as well as the marketing of your topics and the building and expanding of your blog, can also be
a lot of fun.

A blog will definitely require endurance, because keeping it going won’t always be easy, nor will it always be a positive experience. But it can prove to be rewarding in both a
personal and financial sense.
More Reasons to Blog
There are always more ways to make your own blog interesting, especially in comparison to the content on social-media platforms. With a blog, you create something truly of
your own. You own its content, and a blog barely creates any costs. CMS, layouts, plug-ins and more can be installed for free – and cheap hosting solutions are available too.

Good content will always be important. If you manage to build yourself a high-quality blog that’s worth reading, you are guaranteed to attract a large and interested 
readership. Start today, and see where it takes you.
